---
description: The largest Student Robotics competition ever is now underway!
title: SR2014 starts with record numbers of teams
---
{% include figure.html 
           class='right'
           src='/images/content/blog/sr2014/srteams.png'
           caption='A map of SR teams in the UK. &copy; OpenStreetMap contributors' %}

The Student Robotics 2014 competition is now under way. This year we have
three hundred students registered, across fifty four schools, and three
different countries. They now have six months to design, prototype and build
their robots, to take part in this years competition game. You can find more
information about the people taking part on their [team pages](/teams).

The Kickstart event was spread over three different locations, at the
Universities of Southampton and Bristol, and Greshams School in Norfolk.
Attending teams received their electronics kit,
[an introduction to SR](http://youtu.be/MWb3JalwaUM)
and exercised their robot
building skills through a series of tasks demonstrating the range of
functions that our electronics kit provides.

This year our kit has new [motor controllers]({{ '/blog/2013-10-02-sr2014-mcv4' | prepend: site.baseurl }}), allowing our teams to use twice as many
motors as in previous years. We've also included a [ruggeduino](https://studentrobotics.org/docs/kit/ruggeduino) as part of each kit.  As well as
performing basic input and output, the ruggeduino can be reprogrammed by teams to have more advanced, custom
functionality.  We've also kept all of our past features, such as the servo controller and vision system.

This year's game, Slots, challenges teams to collect 20cm boxes from the arena,
rotate them and place them into central zones, with bonuses for placing them in
the adjacent slots. During the competition teams have three minutes to place as many boxes as possible, competing 
against three other robots at a time.

After a league and knockout stage, the best robot will be crowned the SR2014
champion! Full details are available in the [rules](https://studentrobotics.org/docs/rules).

We're hoping that this years competition will produce the most innovative and
exciting robots that we've ever seen during Student Robotics, and are looking
forward to seeing how they perform at the Competition.
