---
layout: news
title: COVID-19 Coronavirus Student Robotics Updates
---

As you will be aware, the COVID-19 situation is quickly evolving, having recently been delcared a pandemic. 
Many large events are being cancelled and we want to be public about how we are responding to the latest news.

The Competition Team are working closely with the Student Robotics trustees so that we can make the most sensible decision.

## The Competition

At the time of writing, we are carefully considering whether the competition can go ahead. As it stands, we still intend to have the competition on the 18th and 19th April 2020.

The Competition Team will be meeting with the trustees at the start of next week (16th March) to decide whether the competition will need to be postponed. 
We will be announcing our decision by Wednesday 18th March at the very latest. 

Considering this is an event for minors, we will be taking decisions with an abundance of caution. 

We are in contact with Reading University Students' Union who are continually reviewing the situation, and mitigating the risks associated with Coronavirus.

### In the case of the competition going ahead

We will be briefing all volunteers and attendees about best hygiene practices, both in advance and on the day, ensuring they're followed throughout the competition. 

We expect all teams who are attending the competition to follow the [guidelines][phe-guidelines] on COVID-19 from Public Health England.

### In the case of the competition being postponed

We are considering weekends in late June / early July as alternatives for the competition. 
We will be surveying team leaders to ensure we select the most appropriate date.

## Tech Days

At the time of writing, we still intend to run the London Tech Day on 28th March. However, we will contact all teams as soon as possible should this be cancelled.


If you or your school has any questions about our handling of the event, please don't hesitate to contact us at teams@studentrobotics.org.

We will keep this page updated with new information as it becomes available.

[phe-guidelines]: https://www.gov.uk/government/publications/guidance-to-educational-settings-about-covid-19/guidance-to-educational-settings-about-covid-19
