---
title: Hills Road Sixth Form College wins Student Robotics Competition 2022!
image: image
image_alt: Alt text for the image
description: SR2022 came to an exciting conclusion with a victory for HRS
---

{% include figure.html
           src="/images/content/blog/sr2022/sr2022-photo.jpg"
           caption="All the teams from SR2022" %}

That’s it for Student Robotics 2022! HRS took the crown in an intense
showdown between CCR, BRK, and QMC. It was fantastic to finally
see robots in-person again after two years of being virtual. The ingenuity and
engineering displayed by all our teams was incredible and we're delighted with
the performances we saw over the weekend.

{% include figure.html
           class="right"
           src="/images/content/blog/sr2022/arena.jpg"
           caption="The arena with a raised area" %}

## The Game: This Way Up

This Way Up challenged teams to collect the most tin cans from the arena and
ensure that they were the right way up for maximum points. When in a team’s
scoring zone, correctly oriented cans were worth 3 points, upside down cans were
worth one point, and cans lying on their side were worth nothing. However, not
all cans were created equal: tin cans on the arena floor started upside down,
but those on the raised platform in the centre were already the right way up,
making them harder to get but easier to score points with. Robots could detect a
can’s orientation by the coloured insulating band along the bottom. The states
of the cans were recorded at the end of the matches and the teams were scored
accordingly. {INSERT PICTURE OF ARENA}

## League Matches

Competition matches started with the league. Teams were awarded 8 points for
coming first, 6 points for second, 4 points for third, and 2 points for fourth
in each of their league matches to add to their league score. Teams played
101 matches giving them time to improve their robot and tweak
their strategy as the league went on. Teams had various designs from {list of
different designs/strategies}. Particularly notable were {list a few teams that
stood out to us}. {INCLUDE A FEW PICS OF THESE TEAMS}

## Knockout Matches

The league matches were important as they seeded the knockouts giving a
potentially easier set of matches to teams placed higher in the league.
{ANYTHING INTERESTING THAT HAPPENED}

## The Final

After progressing through all the knockout matches, four teams were left to face
each other in the final: {LIST OF TEAMS}. {DESCRIPTION OF WHAT HAPPENED}. {PIC
OF FINAL} Results After a close match in the final, it was {1st TEAM} that
managed to beat out the competition and win the Student Robotics 2022
competition, closely followed by {2nd TEAM} in second and {3rd TEAM} in third.

The Committee Award is given to the team that displays the most extraordinary
ingenuity in the design of their robot. As engineers, we appreciate elegance,
simplicity, and robust engineering. This year, the committee award was given to
{COMMITTEE TEAM} for their {WHY COMMITTEE AWARD}.

We're always delighted to welcome new teams to Student Robotics and understand
how big a challenge it can be without prior experience. To recognise this
additional challenge, we award the Rookie Award to the highest placed newcomer
in the league which celebrates the incredible achievement they have made. This
year's recipient was {ROOKIE TEAM} with their {NOTABLE FEATURE} design.

We award the Robot and Team Image Award to the team that presents themselves in
the most outstanding way. As ever, this year our teams rose to the challenge and
we saw some fantastic themes! We loved {list a few}, but we decided to give the
Robot and Team Image award to {TEAM IMAGE} for their {adjective} {TEAM IMAGE
THEME}. {INSERT GROUP PIC OF TEAM AND ROBOT HERE HERE}

Through social media, teams can share the problems they're facing as well as
their designs and successes. A few teams stood out to us this year with their
regular updates on social media, but the winner of the Online Presence Award is
HAM.

For all the details on the awards we give, check out the [rulebook][rules].

## Thank You

As always, this year competition would not have been possible without all of our
amazing sponsors. Their generous support allows us to make Student Robotics free
to enter and help us continue in our mission to bring the excitement of
engineering and the challenge of coding to young people through robotics.

Each year, a small army of volunteers are responsible for making Student
Robotics happen. In addition to all those who helped at the main event, we have
teams of volunteers working throughout the year. Those on our Competition Team
design, organise and deliver Tech Days and the Competition weekend; our Kit Team
designs and supports the software and hardware our competitors use; the
Infrastructure Team ensure that our website stays up and our internal teams can
work collaboratively; the Fundraising Team ensures that we have the resources
needed to run our events; and the Marketing Team makes sure our efforts are seen
and heard by all. A huge thank you to everyone who contributed to the success of
this year's competition. If you're reading this and want to join us next year
sign up on our [volunteering page][volunteers].

## Notes to editors

Student Robotics is an annual robotics competition for 16-19 year-olds in the UK
and Europe. It was founded in 2006 by university students and is free to enter
thanks to our sponsors and [many volunteers][volunteers]. Since it was first run
in 2008, the final competition has grown from one room at the University of
Southampton[^1] to the UK’s biggest autonomous robotics competition.

[^1]: Student Robotics is independent from the University of Southampton.

At the start of the academic year, teams are given a kit containing custom-made
electronics at a Kickstart event, where the game for the year is announced. They
then have until the start of the Easter holiday to build fully-autonomous robots
which will compete against each other in the final competition. They are
supported by volunteer mentors, and software to assist them in programming their
robots is provided.

If you would like to find out more, please [get in touch][contactus].

_The SR Team_

[volunteers]: {{ '/volunteer' | prepend: site.baseurl }}
[contactus]: mailto:pr@studentrobotics.org
[rules]: https://studentrobotics.org/docs/rules/

