---
title: Kit OS Update 2023.1.0
---

Our Kit team has been hard at work and are delighted to announce the release of [Student Robotics OS 2023.1.0](https://studentrobotics.org/docs/kit/brain_board/updates) 🎉. This release brings a number of notable improvements to the kit, read on to find out more!

## Remote Debugging

If there’s one piece of advice we give to our teams it’s “Test, Test, Test” and with [Remote Debugging](https://studentrobotics.org/docs/programming/editors/vscode#remote-debugging) we hope to make this even easier!

Using [VS Code](https://code.visualstudio.com/) (or an editor that supports [DAP](https://microsoft.github.io/debug-adapter-protocol/)) and its remote debugging support competitors can now step through their code while it is executing on the robot. This will allow competitors to inspect variables, change execution flow and gain a much deeper understanding of what their robot is doing at that very moment.

{% include figure.html src="/images/content/blog/sr2023/remote-debug-demonstration.png"
           caption="Remote Debugging a robot in VS Code" alt="Remote Debugging in VS Code" %}

Read the [docs](https://studentrobotics.org/docs/programming/editors/vscode#remote-debugging) to learn more!

## Dark Mode

Love it or hate it, Dark Mode is a stalwart of modern software and we’re happy to announce that the Student Robotics [Web Interface](https://studentrobotics.org/docs/kit/wifi#using-the-robot-interface) now supports it!

{% include figure.html src="TODO"
           caption="The web interface in Dark Mode" alt="The Student Robotics Web Interface in Dark Mode" %}

The Web Interface will automatically use the system’s preferred colour scheme, but you can also manually toggle between light and dark mode.

## Improved Vision

We've tweaked the calibration of the vision system to make it more accurate. We've also added support for inspecting an image that already exists in memory for markers. This will help teams that want to do their own image processing as well as using our vision system.

### Vision Axes Changes

We've also made some opt-in changes to the vision axes. These changes are not enabled by default so as not to break existing code, but we recommend that teams update to use the new axes. By passing `legacy_camera_axis=False` to your `Robot` constructor you can opt-in to the new axes. These now follow the standard right-handed coordinate system, with the X axis pointing forwards, the Y axis pointing to the left and the Z axis pointing up. Yaw, pitch and roll are also corrected to their expected directions.
