---
title: Gymnasium Markt Indersdorf win Student Robotics Competition 2026!
image: /images/content/blog/sr2025/sr2026-photo.png
image_alt: The competitors from the SR2026 competition, standing in and around our arena.
description: SR2026 came to an exciting conclusion with a victory for Gymnasium Markt Indersdorf
---

{% assign photo_full = "/images/content/blog/sr2026/sr2026-photo.large.png" | prepend: site.baseurl %}
{% include figure.html
           src="/images/content/blog/sr2026/sr2026-photo.png"
           url=photo_full
           caption="The teams from SR2026"
           alt="The competitors from the SR2026 competition, standing in and around our arena."
%}

[Gymnasium Markt Indersdorf][MAI], a longstanding competitor of Student Robotics took first place, defeating [Hills Road Sixth Form College][HRS] along with returning competitors from [The Ladies College][TLC] and [King Edward VI Grammar School][KEG] in a nail biting grand final after two days of exciting competition.

<iframe
  title="Video of the Final from SR2026"
  class="center video"
  src="https://www.youtube-nocookie.com/embed/QtBBCHlCOtU?rel=0"
  width="560" height="315"
  frameborder="0"
></iframe>

## The game: The Neutral Zone

{% include figure.html
           class="right"
           src="/images/content/blog/sr2025/arena.png"
           caption="The 'Urban Heights' arena"
           alt="The arena for the Urban Heights from our simulator."
%}

This year’s game, *The Neutral Zone*, had teams collecting lost samples of two types, acid and base, in order to save their research projects. The teams earned points for having only one kind 


The game was open to a huge range of strategies, from delivering a mass of pallets to a single area, to forming stacks of three in the central district, knocking down opposing team pallets, and guarding your own structures.

## Challenges

This year’s competition offered teams a set of Challenges to be completed throughout the competition year. These encouraged teams to start work on their robots early and covered movement, mechanics, and sensing - three core pillars to creating a successful robot. The Challenges could be approached in any order, and completing challenges before certain deadlines earned the teams bonus league points which could make all the difference come the competition.

## League Matches

This year there were 50 in person league matches on Saturday and Sunday, giving teams the chance to refine their strategies and perfect their implementation in software.

By the end of the league stage The Highfield School led by just three points over the School of St Helen and St Katharine, with King Edward VI Grammar School and Royal Grammar School Guildford close behind.

## Knockouts

As like last year the knockout stage was Double Elimination, meaning that teams needed to lose two matches to be knocked out of the competition. With each round, the competition grew fiercer, and the robots were pushed to their limits as they raced to deliver their pallets and secure their place in the finals. The extra chance before being eliminated resulted in some thrilling matches, with Ruthin School recovering from finishing 23rd in the league and running all the way to the grand final.

## The Final

After the gruelling weekend of competition, the final four teams were dialled in with consistent but varied strategies. The excitement was only amplified by the fact that two of our finalists were rookie teams, who had never competed in Student Robotics before!

In a devastating start to the match Royal Grammar School Guildford tried some new code which unfortunately crashed immediately. The Highfield School pursued their usual method by gathering a large number of pallets in their middle district, then heading for the central high rise to deposit a token. Meanwhile, the School of St Helen and St Katharine went for stacks in each district of their quadrant, again finishing with a dive to the centre. Ruthin School missed a pallet but got to the centre first, aiming to deposit a stack and defend the area, but clipped the edge of the high rise and flipped onto their back. The fallen robot blocked The Highfield School and the School of St Helen and St Katharine managed to sneak in and drop a pallet on top with just four seconds remaining.

After a tense wait for the scores, The Highfield School had won by just two points!

## Results

For the first time, a prize was added for 4th place to recognise the achievement of those teams who reach the Grand Final of Student Robotics, and the winner of the Rookie award received a trophy.

- _Winner_: MAI — [Gymnasium Markt Indersdorf][MAI]
- _2nd place_: HRS — [Hills Road Sixth Form College][HRS]
- _3rd place_: TLC — [The Ladies College][TLC]
- _4th place_: KEG — [King Edward VI Grammar School][KEG]
- _Excellence in Engineering_: SWL — [Space Studio West London][SWL] (award sponsored by ITDev)
- _Rookie Award_: TMD — [Tormead School][TMD]
- _Robot and Team Image_: KEG — [King Edward VI Grammar School][KWG]
- _Online Presence_: WGS — [Wisbech Grammar School][WGS]

The Excellence in Engineering Award is given to the team that displays the most extraordinary ingenuity in the design of their robot. As engineers, we appreciate elegance, simplicity, and robust engineering. Whilst the Judges were impressed by the 3D printed design of The Tiffin School’s robot, and simple, and reliable design of Gymnasium Markt Indersdorf, This year the Excellence in Engineering award was given to one of our rookies, Space Studio West London. Their robot sported precise movement through the use of an odometer, and omni-wheels that allowed them to glide effortlessly around our arena and collect samples.

We’re always delighted to welcome new teams to Student Robotics and understand how big a challenge it can be without prior experience. To recognise this additional challenge, we award the Rookie Award to the highest placed newcomer in the league, celebrating their incredible achievement, this year’s recipient was the Tormead School.

The receipt of this year's Rookie award was slightly unusual, in that it was accepted by only one member of their team, - as the rest were unable to attend the competition due to scheduling constraints - a dedicated Year 8 student who was heavily involved in the programming of the robot. We're so glad this young person had such a unique experience and wish her and the rest of the team the best in all of their engineering pursuits.

{% assign team_keg_full = "/images/content/blog/sr2026/team-keg.png" | prepend: site.baseurl %}
{% include figure.html
           class="right"
           src="/images/content/blog/sr2026/team-keg.thumbnail.png"
           url=team_keg_full
           caption="King Edward VI Grammar School with their medieval themed robot."
           alt="King Edward VI Grammar School with their themed robot and their team in medieval costumes."
%}

We award the Robot and Team Image Award to the team that presents themselves in the most outstanding way. As usual our teams rose to the challenge and we saw some fantastic themes! We loved The College of Richard Collyer’s astroturf garden theme, which involved their robot taking the form of a beautifully curated garden (complete with snakes!), however the award for Robot and Team Image went to King Edward VI Grammar School for their medevial robot theme, and corresponding team outfits which included a King, Jester, and even a dragon!

Through social media, teams can share the problems they’re facing as well as their designs and successes. A few teams stood out to us this year with their regular uploads, such as The College of Richard Collyer, King Edward VI Grammar School, Peter Symonds College, Tiffin School, and Headington Rye School, but the winner of the Online Presence Award was Wisbech Grammar School for consistent and high quality posts throughout the year.

Check out the [rulebook][rules] for all the details on the awards we give.

## Media

If you would like to watch the competition back, the event was livestreams are available on our [YouTube Channel][sr-youtube]:

- Saturday, Day 1: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=aLDyjLLuZgU>
- Sunday, Day 2: <https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=oXoNyv2Ck7g>

The playlists for the soundtrack to the competition are also available:

- [Epic Playlist](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/4wBih3S3fb47yCcG9gMSbk)
- [_Chill_ Playlist](https://open.spotify.com/playlist/0d8B7ynxuFNWDrN90w9fbP)

Photos of the event have been added to our [Google Photos Album](TBD).

## Thank You

This year’s competition would not have been possible without all of our amazing sponsors. Their generous support allows us to make Student Robotics free to enter and help us continue in our mission to bring the excitement of engineering and the challenge of coding to young people through robotics.

### Our SR2026 Sponsors

- [The University of Southampton Engineering and Computer Science](https://ecs.soton.ac.uk/)
- [ITDev](https://www.itdev.co.uk/)
- [Mythic Beasts](https://www.mythic-beasts.com/)
- [Hexibox](https://hexibox-events.co.uk/)

We're always looking to partner with more organisations. If you'd like to work with us, see our [sponsor page][sponsor].

### Our Volunteers

We’d also like to thank our volunteers, who make Student Robotics happen every year! Some have helped at the competition itself, while others have been in teams working throughout the year to organise the event. Our Competition Team designs, organises, and delivers Tech Days and the Competition weekend. Our Kit Team designs and supports the software and hardware our competitors use; the Infrastructure Team ensures that our website stays up and our internal teams can work collaboratively; the Fundraising Team ensures that we have the resources needed to run our events; and the Marketing Team makes sure our efforts are seen and heard by all. A huge thank you to everyone who contributed to the success of this year’s competition.

If you’re reading this and want to join us next year, sign up on our [volunteering page][volunteers].

## Notes to editors

Student Robotics is an annual robotics competition for 16-19 year-olds in the UK
and Europe. It was founded in 2006 by university students and is free to enter
thanks to our [sponsors][sponsor] and [many volunteers][volunteers]. Since it
was first run in 2008, the final competition has grown from one room at the
University of Southampton[^1] to the UK's biggest autonomous robotics
competition.

[^1]: Student Robotics is independent from the University of Southampton.

At the start of the academic year, teams are given a kit containing custom-made
electronics at a Kickstart event, where the game for the year is announced. They
then have until the Easter holiday to build fully-autonomous robots, which will
compete against each other in the final competition. They are supported by
volunteer mentors, and software to assist them in programming their robots is
provided.

If you would like to find out more, please [get in touch][contactus].

_The SR Team_

[sr-youtube]: https://www.youtube.com/StudentRobotics
[volunteers]: {{ '/volunteer' | prepend: site.baseurl }}
[contactus]: mailto:pr@studentrobotics.org
[rules]: https://studentrobotics.org/docs/resources/2026/rulebook.html
[sponsor]: {{ '/sponsor' | prepend: site.baseurl }}

[TMD]: https://www.tormeadschool.org.uk/
[KEG]: https://www.kegs.org.uk/
[SWL]: https://www.spacestudiowestlondon.org/
[TLC]: https://www.ladiescollege.com/
[MAI]: https://www.gym-indersdorf.de/
[WGS]: https://www.wisbechgrammar.com/
